let's talk about the biggest Instagram
changes that you need to know as we head
into 2024 some of these changes and
updates are predictions for 2024 some of
them have been reported on by Instagram
CEO himself and some of them are coming
from some recent studies that have been
done into Instagram where we are looking
at the actual data to let you know what
is working what is not working and what
is going to be working in
2024 in case You' never watched any of
my content before hello my name is Brock
Johnson and it's my job to help you grow
on Instagram I've grown my own personal
following to over 600,000 followers over
the course of the last few years and
I've been really blessed to now speak on
stages around the world and even consult
with meta Facebook and Instagram on some
of their new features the first change
that I want to report to you as we head
into 2024 is that reals are no longer
King Instagram in 2022 was all about
reals and in 2023 we started to see a
shift because of a wide variety of
things first and foremost is supply and
demand because everyone in their mom and
their Grandma started posting reels
there was a massive influx of Supply in
fact according to one study done by
metrial that looked at over 1 million
Instagram reels they found that the
average account was posting between 30
and 90% more reels in 2023 quite simply
put there's a lot more reels being
posted now than there was in the past
but when you look at demand which is
essentially how much attention is being
given to Instagram or how much time are
people spending on Instagram we haven't
necessarily seen a big increase and in
many studies we even see a slight
decrease in terms of how much time
people are spending per month on
Instagram so if people are spending the
same amount of time on Instagram yet
we're expecting them to consume 30 to
90% more reals of course reals views are
going to go down that market is a lot
more saturated if you were someone who
is posting reels in 2021 you were going
to most likely have wild success back
then it was realistic to say hey if
you're posting 30 reels in 30 days at
least one of those is going to go viral
and help you gain a lot of followers but
now not only is it a lot tougher to go
viral it's also a lot tougher to convert
those viewers into followers and that's
because as the quality of content
continues to increase as more people are
creating reels and as the average
Instagram user is consuming more reels
they're less likely to just follow
anyone who makes a good re or makes a
funny reel and in fact according to a
study done by metrol in 20123 Real's
views are on average down by
76% and I hear it every single day in
the DM people are messaging me saying I
used to get 100,000 views on every reel
now I'm getting 10,000 I used to get
10,000 views on every re now I'm getting
a th000 I used to get 1,000 views on
every reel and now I can barely get a
100 and I know it's frustrating
especially because a lot of us are
spending a lot of time creating these
reals ultimately for them to not perform
very well but the facts are the facts
and the numbers show us that Real's
views are down Real's engagement is down
and so one of my biggest predictions one
of the biggest algorithm changes as we
head into 2024 is that it's not just all
about reals so if when you take a look
at your Instagram profile it's 100%
reals or even just majority reels I want
you to reconsider that strategy as we
move forward the second biggest
algorithm change that I can tell you as
we head into this new year will help you
get more views on your reels and that is
that the hook is everything I would
recommend spending 80% of your time
Focus energy and effort when you're
creating content on the hook for those
of you who don't know what a hook is a
Hook is essentially the beginning of
your content whether that's the first
line of your caption the first few
seconds of your video the first slide in
your Carousel or the headline let's say
if you're creating an infographic the
beginning of something is your hook and
it's called The Hook because it's meant
to hook in your audience right it's
meant to grab their attention and make
sure they're watching just like at the
beginning of this YouTube video if you
rewind back to the very start I used a
hook to hopefully draw you in and get
you watching up until the point that you
are right now but one of the big issues
with Instagram reals is so many
Instagram coaches say post valuable
content make sure your content is great
make sure you're giving valuable tips
and sharing great information but the
problem is even the greatest most
valuable book ever written won't be read
if it doesn't have a strong opening
chapter if each chapter doesn't have a
strong opening paragraph if the title
and the cover of the book aren't going
to hook readers in and actually make
them want to read it doesn't matter how
great your movie is if the first 15
minutes suck you're going to get a bunch
of people walking out of the movie so
yes the rising action the storytelling
the climax the resolution all those
things matter but ultimately they're a
waste of time if you don't start with a
strong hook Mr Beast even once reported
that he spends about
$10,000 per YouTube thumbnail and that
might sound crazy to a lot of people but
essentially the thumbnail on YouTube is
the first hook that is the first
opportunity that you have on YouTube to
grab someone's attention and get them to
watch your video so he could spend
millions of of dollars making amazing
videos and ultimately the views are
going to be way lower if his hook AKA
his title and his thumbnail aren't high
enough quality and on Instagram
fortunately you don't have to spend
$110,000 creating this amazing thumbnail
and I know that there are covers on
Instagram reals don't get me wrong but
let's also be honest very few people are
even going to be looking at your cover
so really the hook that matters on
Instagram is the beginning of the
content itself unfortunately we actually
recently did a study deep diving into
about 300 different Instagram posts that
have gone viral we were looking at the
most popular viral reels and studying
specifically their hooks we were looking
at what Hooks were performing the best
what sorts of languaging were people
using were people focused on negative
outcomes positive outcomes was there
some sort of like key word that everyone
was using and we put together a top 25
list and we decided to make that free so
down below in the show notes or in the
description below this episode you can
find the link to our 25 viral Instagram
hooks even while while you're listening
to this right now or if you're watching
on YouTube I highly recommend clicking
on that link it'll open in another
browser and you can just pop in your
email so that you get those viral hooks
while you're still listening to or
watching this in the background
definitely check that out but we created
that in the first place and decided to
even do that study because the hook is
just so so important if you don't have a
quality hook even the best content won't
get watched and in a day and age where
everyone's attention span is getting
shorter and shorter and we're getting
used to these really really brief videos
and these super quick vertical reels and
Tik toks and things like that if you're
not grabbing someone's attention
immediately like in the first few frames
of the video they're going to scroll
away and all of the rest of the effort
that you put in was kind of for waste
and so as we head into 2024 I want you
to revisit all of the reels that you've
posted in 2023 especially the reels that
you thought would do really well and
ended up not doing so great revisit them
and specifically look with a critical
eye at Your Hooks is there something
visually grabbing people's attention at
the beginning is there a sound effect is
there an edit is there a transition what
kinds of words what's your opening
phrase or statement and is it really
going to grab the attention of a
stranger who's just scrolling through
Instagram and my Pro tip for you is that
if you had a reel in 2023 that you're
like this should have done well I put a
lot of work into this I don't know why
this didn't perform so good post it
again in 2024 but change out the hook
see if you can use one of the hooks from
our 25 viral hooks guide and maybe swap
out just the beginning of that video who
cares if you're wearing a different
shirt or if your hair looks a little bit
longer in the new video swap out the
hook and I bet you that video will
perform better and you won't have to put
in the whole effort to re-recording or
remaking the entire video the third
algorithm change that I want you to be
aware of as we head into 2024 is that
carousels and photos are back baby the
initial uh inclination that this was
happening I know it's a big word uh the
initial idea that this was going to
happen came from Instagram CEO in the
summer of 2022 surprisingly when he said
quote I think we went too far with
pushing reals he was basically saying I
think we at Instagram with the Instagram
algorithm went overboard with the
distribution and the view share of reals
because of course with let's say 100
million people on Instagram every day
the algorithm has to decide who is
seeing what and what percentage of reals
are being pushed and what percentage of
the feed is reals versus photos versus
carousels and basically the CEO Adam
masery on his Instagram story said we
went too far so in the future we're
going to be balancing it out we're going
to be balancing out the reach between
reals and non-real so of course there is
the whole Supply demand thing and that's
one of the big reasons that reals views
are down but another big reason why
Real's views are down is simply because
of this internal change this algorithm
shift at Instagram where they have now
made a point of emphasis to make sure
that non-real AKA photos and carousels
are getting more views they're getting
getting more distribution so let's hold
that in our mind and now let's also
think about the whole supply and demand
thing if the supply of photos and
carousels is down because everyone is
busy posting reals plus you add that in
with the fact that demand is technically
increasing because the algorithm is
showing photos and carousels to more
people you have the inverse of what
happened with reals happening with
photos and carousels in other words
you're going to get more views and
engagement on your photos and carousels
in 2024 than you likely did in 2022 or
even in 2023 in fact according to that
study that I mentioned earlier that came
out at the end of 2023 photos are
getting more engagement in 2023 than
they were in 2022 and carousels which I
know I've said that word a few times
that's like the slideshow posts those
posts are not only getting more
engagement in 2023 they're getting more
reach they're reaching more people and
getting more views this year than they
were last year and we expect that Trend
to continue into 2024 this is something
that we actually recently did an entire
insta clubhub live training on so if
you're an insta clubhub member make sure
to log into the club and check out those
recent live trainings cuz we did an
entire live training not just on the
fact that carousels and photos are back
but also we talked about how you can use
your past reels to create nonre and
different strategies for creating more
content on Instagram that's actually
going to perform well so make sure you
log in and check that out algorithm
update number four for 2024 is that
shares are king and now we've been
saying this for quite a while for quite
a while there's been a myth floating
around on Instagram that saves are the
best form of Engagement according to our
own data research and according to
honestly common sense it doesn't really
make sense that a save would be the best
form of Engagement because let's think
about what is a save a save is
essentially someone just tapping on that
little bookmark and hoping or planning
that they're going to go back and
revisit your content in the future but
it doesn't necessarily generate more
views it doesn't necessarily guarantee
that that person is spending more time
on Instagram and it's kind of a a
lowlevel form of Engagement Eng agement
right it doesn't take a lot of
investment for the person who's pressing
save in order to save your post on the
other hand a share according to our
research equates to 400 additional views
just one share equates to on average 400
extra views on Instagram and so that in
and of itself tells us well yeah a share
is the best way to get more engagement
and more views and more followers Also
let's think about the intention behind
someone who is sharing they are quite
literally taking your content and
telling more people to look at it
whether they're sharing it on their
story sharing it in their group chat
sharing it via direct message it is
quite literally directly generating more
views it's that follower or that engager
saying this content is so good I want
more people to see it and we've been
saying this for the last few years but
finally Instagram's CEO Adam maery
directly said this on his Instagram
stories he reported that the best form
of Engagement from Instagram's
perspective is a share and he said this
because he said that shares generate the
most conversation and shares lead to
people spending more time on Instagram
so if you want to crush it on Instagram
in 2024 you want to make sure you're
getting more shares and how do you do
that well you create share worthy
content duh you create content that is
worthy of being shared generally
speaking there are a few different
categories of what is share worthy there
are a few different kinds of posts that
are more likely to get shares than
others and again I know I mentioned the
insta clubhub a minute ago that's
something that we detail in length
inside the insta clubhub but essentially
the primary forms of sharew worthy cont
content is number one thought-provoking
or emotional content number two
controversial content and number three
breaking news/ trending SL poop culture
content when you can create sharew
worthy content and thus get more shares
you will reliably reach more people
increase your engagement and grow your
following speaking of Engagement and
getting more views my fifth algorithm
change for Instagram as we head into
2024 is that for reals you should be
focused on watch rate or in other words
the percentage of the real that the
average person is watching if your reel
is 10 seconds long and the average
person watches 8 seconds then your watch
rate or your percentage completion is
80% so yes with this in mind it is true
that often times the shorter reels the
ones that are you know 10 seconds or
less they're going to have a higher
percentage of watch time people are
going to watch them 100% of the way
through or even 150% they're going to
watch the whole reel and they're going
to watch it again for 50% and that is a
great metric that is a great indication
for the algorithm to push your reel to
more people but I do want to remind you
that there is no silver bullet or magic
length your reels don't have to be 7
Seconds they don't have to be a minute
long they should be long enough to cover
what you need to cover but short enough
to hold people's attention one of our
insta Club of students calls that the
miniskirt Rule and I love calling it
that as well short enough to grab and
hold people's attention but still long
enough to cover what you need to cover
basically the biggest tip that I can
give you is to be concise to not mince
words to edit out any dead space or
pauses in your speaking and basically
and I know this is tough for some people
don't blabber on and try to stay as
brief as you can and with a new update
at the end of 2023 Instagram gave us the
ability to track watch time and see all
this data on watch rate and completion
percentage and average view duration and
total view duration and all that good
stuff so you're able to get a lot more
information on your reels after you've
posted them to see if people are
watching them all the way through and
you can use that to inform your future
reels to make sure that you are
prioritizing watch time and completion
percentage and then the sixth and final
algorithm change that I wanted to report
on for you for 2024 is that hashtags and
trending audios are far less important
and far less effective than they have
been in the past let's talk about
hashtags first and foremost there're
something I've talked about many many
times here on this channel detailed in
length but hashtags are just not as
effective now as they were in the past
in let's say 2015 2016 hashtags were
huge they were a great way to categorize
your content to get discovered to reach
new people and to reliably increase your
engagement but increasingly now as time
has gone on as more people have started
to use and even abuse hashtags and as
Instagram has increased their SEO
capabilities and decreased their
importance of hashtags or Reliance upon
hashtags they've just become a lot less
reliable of a way to grow your account
and get more engagement now don't get me
wrong they're not totally dead they're
not totally worthless they can still
help they can still uh you know allow to
reach more people or be discovered
they're not totally dead and worthless
but I don't think that hashtag
specifically should be an area of your
Instagram strategy that you're really
focused on or spending a lot of time
working on or thinking about generally
speaking use a few hashtags make sure
that they are related to your content
and you should be good to go now the
other area of this algorithm change is
trending audios trending Audios in 2022
were massive trending Audios in 2023
seem to be more effective for the people
announcing sing that there was a new
trending audio rather than the people
who used it and maybe you've seen this
before there are plenty of accounts
plenty of people on Instagram who a
large part of what they post maybe even
a majority maybe even all of what they
post on Instagram is trending audio
alert and they do that not necessarily
because this trending audio is
guaranteed to generate success for you
but because it's almost guaranteed to
generate success for them because it
creates fomo in the viewer the viewers
are now watching the post they're
getting ideas they're saving the audio
spending more time on Instagram and so
Instagram helps the person who is
posting the trending audio alert but
overall I think that there has been an
overemphasis and maybe even an overuse
of trending audios and over Reliance
upon trending audios with in the
Instagram community at large trending
audios oftentimes don't create any trust
in your viewers because they lack
personality and they lack originality
trending audios are often times overused
and can even be annoying or frustrating
when your viewers see them because they
think I've already seen 300 people use
this audio today I'm over it and also
often times trending audios can be
really short really brief and they can
cater to the algorithm more than they
cater to your audience so listen you can
use whatever audio you want you can use
trending audios you can look for
trending audios by all means but my
biggest recommendation when it comes to
you know the stress and the frustration
around is this audio trending is it
going to blow up is it small enough that
it's not oversaturated but still big
enough that it has some traction and
it's is going to blow up just don't
worry about it use the audios that you
want to use do the lip syncs that you
want to lip sync use the audios that you
find funny that you find practical that
you find useful for your own Niche and
that really speak to you or inspire you
or that you want to create content
around I encourage you to not fall for
the fomo or not even feel the fomo that
might be created by people who are
telling you you have to use this audio
it's about to blow up you need to use it
or you're going to miss out there's
always going to be more trending audios
there's always going to be a new popular
audio there's like four or five or 10
there's probably even over 20 new
trending audios that pop up every single
day on Instagram so don't worry so much
over whether or not this audio is
trending focus on creating better
content and making sure that the content
that you're creating is intended to
serve your audience and not just the
algorithm if you're someone who it feels
like it takes you forever to create
content I do want to encourage you to
watch a past episode that we uploaded
about a week ago from the time of this
one uploading and it's called make 30
Instagram Reals in 30 minutes with chat
GPT that is an awesome episode I highly
encourage you to watch or listen to that
one because it's going to be really
helpful for you in creating more content
in less time uh but still making sure
that your content is of a certain
quality and actually relates to your
Niche and actually um specifically
applies to you and your account it's not
just some general content so I highly
recommend checking that out thank you so
much for listening today if you enjoyed
don't forget to press that subscribe
button give us a thumbs up if you
enjoyed today's episode and I will see
you in the next one happy networking
[Music]
m